Readme.md, before:

# Nerve API Example Scripts

## Description

This repository holds the examples to demonstrate the Nerve API and a command-line tool based on the API.

## Installation

These scripts have been developed and tested with Python 3.12, and it is recommended to run them with Python 3.12 or later. If you run the scripts with an older version of Python, adaptations might be necessary. It is also recommended to run the scripts within a virtual environment.

> Note that the instructions below are for Linux operating systems. For information on how to create a virtual environment on Windows, please refer to [the official Python documentation](https://python.land/virtual-environments/virtualenv#How_to_create_a_Python_venv).

Create a new virtual environment. This example uses `n_venv` as the environment name:
```
python3.12 -m venv n_venv
```

Activate the environment and check the Python version.
```
source n_venv/bin/activate
python --version
```

Install the dependencies.
```
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

Check if everything works as intended.
```
python ./nerve.py --help
```

When you are done you can deactivate the environment.
```
deactivate
```


## License

The source code is released under MIT license (see the LICENSE file).

# Command-line use and use as a library

The repository contains two parts;
The *commands* directory contains the functions for executing interactively from the command line.
The *nerveapi* directory contains the Python module which encapsulates the API.
The individual Python files are structured along the objects they work on. To accomplish a specific task using the API functions, looking into the implementation of the corresponding command in the commands directory may be a good starting point.


## Command-line use

Start the function running `nerve.py` with arguments. See `--help` for usage details or refer to the help output below:

```
positional arguments:
  {set_login,logout,list_workloads,create_workload,create_label,get_labels,delete_label,create_wl_template,delete_workloads,list_nodes,reboot_nodes,start,stop,restart}
                        Available sub-commands:
    set_login           Checks and sets login credentials. Uses file, environment vars or prompt.
    logout              Log out and delete session data.
    list_workloads      List workloads and store them.
    create_workload     Create a new workload.
    create_label        Create a new label.
    get_labels          List the labels in the system.
    delete_label        Delete a label.
    create_wl_template  Creates a workload definition template from the first workload in the workload list.
    delete_workloads    Delete workloads from a workload list file. Use list_workloads to create a list file.
    list_nodes          List nodes and create a node list or add to the list. See the functions help for more information.
    reboot_nodes        Reboot nodes from a node list file.  See list_nodes help for details.
    start               Start workloads from a workload list file.  See list_nodes help for details.
    stop                Stop workloads from a workload list file. See list_nodes help for details.
    restart             Restart workloads from a workload list file.  See list_nodes help for details.

options:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
```

As the helpfile to *nerve.py* states, the credentials may be provided in four different ways for the `set_login` command:

- via command line arguments: `python nerve.py set_login -u https://my-management-system.nerve.cloud --username myusername --password mypassword`
- via environment variables (set the `NERVE_URL`, `NERVE_USERNAME`, and `NERVE_PASSWORD` environment variables). Check the *set_login_environment_vars.sh* script to understand the naming of the variables.
- via `.ini` file. The file extension will be added automatically. So when using the file `credentials.ini` type: `python nerve.py set_login --file credentials`
- via interactive keyboard input (if none of the above is provided, the script will interactively ask for the credentials): `python nerve.py set_login`

A credentials file must have the following form:
```ini
[Credentials]
url = https://my-management-system.nerve.cloud
username = myusername
password = mypassword
```
When working with multiple Management Systems it might make sense to work with `.ini` files and create one file per Management System.

### Example Usage

The main entry point for the command line is the *nerve.py* script. Run `python nerve.py --help` to get detailed information about all available commands.

Before any of the commands can be run on a Management System, one needs to login. There are several ways to provide credentials. One way is to run the `set_login` command and provide the credentials and the Management System URL interactively:

```bash
python nerve.py set_login
# provide the requested information
```

When running the command, a login will be performed and the session information will be stored in the `session_id.ini` file. To logout one can either run the `python nerve.py logout` command. If you delete the `session_id.ini` file, a new login will be required.

Now we can perform operations on the Management System such as listing all the Docker workloads that are available on the Management System:

```bash
python nerve.py list_workloads --type docker --output workloads.json --human
```
This will write the result into the JSON file *workloads.json* and also print it to the command line in a human-readable way. For more details about the command, check the help with `python nerve.py list_workloads --help`.

Another use case might be to get a list of all nodes where a specific workload version is currently deployed:
```bash
python nerve.py list_nodes -wn nginx -vn v1 --human --file nodes.json
```
This lists all nodes where the workload with the name "nginx" is deployed in version "v1" and saves the output as JSON into the *nodes.json*.

The scripts also provide a workflow to create a new workload. Simply define the workload via a JSON file. To make it easier to create such a file, a template can be created from an existing workload:

1. To create a Docker workload first fetch a JSON file that contains such workload definitions from existing workloads on the Management System.

    ```bash
    python nerve.py list_workloads --type docker --output workloads.json
    ```

2. Take the first workload from that query and create a template from it for the new workload to be created.

    ```bash
    python nerve.py create_wl_template --input_file workloads.json --output_file wl_def.json
    ```

3. Now open the *wl_def.json* file with a text editor and adjust it to your needs to represent the new workload to be created and save it e.g. as *new_wl.json*
4. The new workload can now be created on the Management System with the following command.

    ```bash
    python nerve.py create_workload --template new_wl.json
    ```

## Use as Library

The API functions require one commonly held state which is the session ID after login. The session is stored in *session_id.ini* in the file system. This was done to avoid handing the state through all calls.
All API functions make extensive use of exceptions to inform the user about unforeseen problems in the call. Make sure to expect those.

Commit message:

NAPIE-006: Marked deprecated via Readme, linked new CLI and Lib

Readme.md, after:

# Nerve API Example Scripts (DEPRECATED)

## Deprecated
This repository is deprecated and has been replaced by the [Nerve API CLI](https://github.com/tttech-nerve/nerve-api-cli) based on the [Nerve API Python Library (nerve_lib)](https://github.com/tttech-nerve/nerve-api-python). Refer to the linked repositories for details.

## Description

This repository holds the examples to demonstrate the Nerve API and a command-line tool based on the API.

## Installation

These scripts have been developed and tested with Python 3.12, and it is recommended to run them with Python 3.12 or later. If you run the scripts with an older version of Python, adaptations might be necessary. It is also recommended to run the scripts within a virtual environment.

> Note that the instructions below are for Linux operating systems. For information on how to create a virtual environment on Windows, please refer to [the official Python documentation](https://python.land/virtual-environments/virtualenv#How_to_create_a_Python_venv).

Create a new virtual environment. This example uses `n_venv` as the environment name:
```
python3.12 -m venv n_venv
```

Activate the environment and check the Python version.
```
source n_venv/bin/activate
python --version
```

Install the dependencies.
```
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

Check if everything works as intended.
```
python ./nerve.py --help
```

When you are done you can deactivate the environment.
```
deactivate
```


## License

The source code is released under MIT license (see the LICENSE file).

# Command-line use and use as a library

The repository contains two parts;
The *commands* directory contains the functions for executing interactively from the command line.
The *nerveapi* directory contains the Python module which encapsulates the API.
The individual Python files are structured along the objects they work on. To accomplish a specific task using the API functions, looking into the implementation of the corresponding command in the commands directory may be a good starting point.


## Command-line use

Start the function running `nerve.py` with arguments. See `--help` for usage details or refer to the help output below:

```
positional arguments:
  {set_login,logout,list_workloads,create_workload,create_label,get_labels,delete_label,create_wl_template,delete_workloads,list_nodes,reboot_nodes,start,stop,restart}
                        Available sub-commands:
    set_login           Checks and sets login credentials. Uses file, environment vars or prompt.
    logout              Log out and delete session data.
    list_workloads      List workloads and store them.
    create_workload     Create a new workload.
    create_label        Create a new label.
    get_labels          List the labels in the system.
    delete_label        Delete a label.
    create_wl_template  Creates a workload definition template from the first workload in the workload list.
    delete_workloads    Delete workloads from a workload list file. Use list_workloads to create a list file.
    list_nodes          List nodes and create a node list or add to the list. See the functions help for more information.
    reboot_nodes        Reboot nodes from a node list file.  See list_nodes help for details.
    start               Start workloads from a workload list file.  See list_nodes help for details.
    stop                Stop workloads from a workload list file. See list_nodes help for details.
    restart             Restart workloads from a workload list file.  See list_nodes help for details.

options:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
```

As the helpfile to *nerve.py* states, the credentials may be provided in four different ways for the `set_login` command:

- via command line arguments: `python nerve.py set_login -u https://my-management-system.nerve.cloud --username myusername --password mypassword`
- via environment variables (set the `NERVE_URL`, `NERVE_USERNAME`, and `NERVE_PASSWORD` environment variables). Check the *set_login_environment_vars.sh* script to understand the naming of the variables.
- via `.ini` file. The file extension will be added automatically. So when using the file `credentials.ini` type: `python nerve.py set_login --file credentials`
- via interactive keyboard input (if none of the above is provided, the script will interactively ask for the credentials): `python nerve.py set_login`

A credentials file must have the following form:
```ini
[Credentials]
url = https://my-management-system.nerve.cloud
username = myusername
password = mypassword
```
When working with multiple Management Systems it might make sense to work with `.ini` files and create one file per Management System.

### Example Usage

The main entry point for the command line is the *nerve.py* script. Run `python nerve.py --help` to get detailed information about all available commands.

Before any of the commands can be run on a Management System, one needs to login. There are several ways to provide credentials. One way is to run the `set_login` command and provide the credentials and the Management System URL interactively:

```bash
python nerve.py set_login
# provide the requested information
```

When running the command, a login will be performed and the session information will be stored in the `session_id.ini` file. To logout one can either run the `python nerve.py logout` command. If you delete the `session_id.ini` file, a new login will be required.

Now we can perform operations on the Management System such as listing all the Docker workloads that are available on the Management System:

```bash
python nerve.py list_workloads --type docker --output workloads.json --human
```
This will write the result into the JSON file *workloads.json* and also print it to the command line in a human-readable way. For more details about the command, check the help with `python nerve.py list_workloads --help`.

Another use case might be to get a list of all nodes where a specific workload version is currently deployed:
```bash
python nerve.py list_nodes -wn nginx -vn v1 --human --file nodes.json
```
This lists all nodes where the workload with the name "nginx" is deployed in version "v1" and saves the output as JSON into the *nodes.json*.

The scripts also provide a workflow to create a new workload. Simply define the workload via a JSON file. To make it easier to create such a file, a template can be created from an existing workload:

1. To create a Docker workload first fetch a JSON file that contains such workload definitions from existing workloads on the Management System.

    ```bash
    python nerve.py list_workloads --type docker --output workloads.json
    ```

2. Take the first workload from that query and create a template from it for the new workload to be created.

    ```bash
    python nerve.py create_wl_template --input_file workloads.json --output_file wl_def.json
    ```

3. Now open the *wl_def.json* file with a text editor and adjust it to your needs to represent the new workload to be created and save it e.g. as *new_wl.json*
4. The new workload can now be created on the Management System with the following command.

    ```bash
    python nerve.py create_workload --template new_wl.json
    ```

## Use as Library

The API functions require one commonly held state which is the session ID after login. The session is stored in *session_id.ini* in the file system. This was done to avoid handing the state through all calls.
All API functions make extensive use of exceptions to inform the user about unforeseen problems in the call. Make sure to expect those.
